\input texinfo @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename sheeple.info
@settitle Sheeple @value{VERSION} Manual
@firstparagraphindent insert
@c %**end of header

@set EDITION 0.1
@set VERSION v3.0
@set UPDATED-MONTH September 2009
@set UPDATED 6 @value{UPDATED-MONTH}

@copying
This is Edition @value{EDITION},
last updated @value{UPDATED},
of @cite{The Sheeple Manual},
for Sheeple @value{VERSION}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2008, 2009 Kat Marchan.

This software is composed in part of code taken from SBCL's version of PCL, and
Closette as presented in Art of the Metaobject Protocol, at times with only
small modifications. It also contains some original code. Copying and
distribution of this software must retain the copyright notice for Xerox, as
well as Kat Marchan's:

@quotation
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
@end quotation

Xerox's copyright, from original PCL sources:

@quotation
Copyright @copyright{} 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990 Xerox Corporation. All
rights reserved.

Use and copying of this software and preparation of derivative works based upon
this software are permitted. Any distribution of this software or derivative
works must comply with all applicable United States export control laws.

This software is made available AS IS, and Xerox Corporation makes no warranty
about the software, its performance or its conformity to any specification.
@end quotation

Additionally, Sheeple uses Luis Oliveira's trivial-garbage for portability
across implementations. trivial-garbage is in the public domain, thus although
the statement packaged with it is included here, copies and derivatives of
Sheeple need not include it:

@quotation
This software is placed in the public domain by Luis Oliveira
<loliveira@@common-lisp.net> and is provided with absolutely no warranty.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Sheeple Manual
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, covering Sheeple @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED-MONTH}
@author by Adlai Chandrasekhar and Kat Marchan
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex

@node Top, General Information, (dir), (dir)
@top Sheeple Manual

This manual is for Sheeple @value{VERSION}
@end ifnottex

@menu
* General Information::         Overview of Sheeple
* Concept Index::               Index
* Copying::                     Your rights and freedoms
@end menu
@node General Information, Concept Index, Top, Top
@chapter General Information

@menu
* About Sheeple::               A Non-Technical Overview
* Installing Sheeple::          A Slightly Technical Guide
@end menu

@node About Sheeple, Installing Sheeple, General Information, General Information
@section About Sheeple
@cindex Sheeple, general overview of

@menu
* Vision::                      The Grand Plan for Sheeple
* History::                     What Inspired Sheeple? What Influenced Sheeple?
@end menu

@node Vision, History, About Sheeple, About Sheeple
@subsection Vision
@cindex Vision
Sheeple is a Dynamic, CLOS-like, Delegative Prototype-based Object-Oriented
Programming Framework (or "POOP Framework") that strives to optimize application
flexibility, minimize cost while increasing value, maximize programmer
resources, and empower application implementers to better assist them in
leveraging modern paradigms in order to proactively achieve next-generation
synergy in tomorrow's web 3.0 world. It is implemented in (mostly) ANSI Common
Lisp. Sheeple is fully buzzword compliant.

@node History,  , Vision, About Sheeple
@subsection History
@cindex history, of Sheeple
Sheeple was originally written as a persistent library for use with
Sykosomatic. Because of a desire to use it in other applications, it was
rewritten as a regular prototype object system and provided as a standalone
library meant for general-purpose OO hackery.

Persistent Sheeple has not been abandoned, instead, it's being implemented as a
separate library using Sheeple's reflection features.

Sheeple is inspired by a number of Object-Oriented systems, mainly:
@enumerate
@item
CLOS, the Common Lisp Object System.
@cindex CLOS

@item
Slate, a Smalltalk-like language with Prototype Multiple Dispatch on which
Sheeple bases its message dispatch system.
@cindex Slate
@cindex Smalltalk
@cindex PMD

@item
Self, another Smalltalk-like language with lots of papers written about it, and
the concept of prototype OO.

@item
Io, a pure prototype-based language. Sheeple, like Io, implements differential
inheritance.
@end enumerate

It was written with the purpose of providing a lot of the goodies of CLOS
programming in a completely prototype-based environment. As such, it shares a
lot of features and syntax with CLOS. The most notable of these are multiple
inheritance and multiple dispatch of methods.

@page
@node Installing Sheeple,  , About Sheeple, General Information
@section Installing Sheeple

@menu
* Installation Procedure::      A quick guide to obtaining Sheeple
* Supported Platforms::         In which systems and implementations does
                                Sheeple currently perform best?
* Loading Sheeple::             A quick guide to starting Sheeple
@end menu

@node Installation Procedure, Supported Platforms, Installing Sheeple, Installing Sheeple
@subsection Installation Procedure
@cindex Installation
@cindex Github
There are two primary ways to obtain Sheeple, namely, a tagged release, or a
clone of the public repository, available via git. Unless you are interested in
contributing to Sheeple development and/or studying Sheeple's internals, you
should use a tagged release. Regardless of which method you use to obtain
Sheeple, you will need to follow the directions in @ref{Informing ASDF}.

@menu
* Tagged Release::              Downloading a stable copy of Sheeple
* Tracking the Git Repo::       Tracking the ``bleeding edge''
* Informing ASDF::              Setting up a downloaded copy of Sheeple
@end menu

@node Tagged Release, Tracking the Git Repo, Installation Procedure, Installation Procedure
@unnumberedsubsubsec Tagged Release
@cindex release, latest
@cindex downloading
A tagged release is preferable for stability --- we test new features
extensively before including them in a tagged release. At the time of this
writing, the latest tagged release is available as a tarball from
@uref{http://github.com/zkat/sheeple/tarball/v2.2}.

@node Tracking the Git Repo, Informing ASDF, Tagged Release, Installation Procedure
@unnumberedsubsubsec Tracking the Git Repo
@cindex git, repository, tracking
@cindex bleeding edge, tracking the
Since all new features are developed and tested carefully before inclusion in
tagged releases, the best way to track the ``bleeding edge'' of Sheeple
development is through @command{git}. @command{git} is a sophisticated revision
control system, used extensively by all of Sheeple's developers. A full overview
of @command{git} is beyond the scope of this section; those interested should
refer to the
@uref{http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/user-manual.html, Git
Manual}.

You can browse Sheeple's main git repository with a browser through
@uref{http://github.com/zkat/sheeple}. This command will create a copy of
the Sheeple repository on your local machine:

@example
git clone git://github.com/zkat/sheeple.git
@end example

@node Informing ASDF,  , Tracking the Git Repo, Installation Procedure
@subsubsection Informing ASDF
@cindex ASDF
@cindex Windows
Sheeple is organized using @acronym{@dfn{ASDF}, Another System Definition
Facility}, the standard system-definition facility for Common Lisp programs. For
more information about ASDF, you should refer to the
@uref{http://common-lisp.net/project/asdf/manual.html, @acronym{ASDF} Manual};
the rest of this section assumes that you are familiar with the basic concepts.

@strong{Please Notice:} If your implementation does not include ASDF, you will
have to acquire it and load it yourself. Information on installing
@acronym{ASDF} is available via the @uref{http://www.cliki.net/asdf, ASDF CLiki
page}.

To complete a Sheeple installation, you must inform @acronym{ASDF} where it can
find the file @file{sheeple.asd}. Substituting @var{registry} and @var{sheeple}
for your @acronym{ASDF} registry and the directory of your Sheeple installation,
these commands should work on any @acronym{UNIX}-like system:

@example
cd @var{registry}
ln -s @var{sheeple}/sheeple.asd .
@end example

This method does not work on Windows, which does not support symbolic links. If
you have to deal with setting up @acronym{ASDF} systems on Windows, you may find
the @uref{http://common-lisp.net/project/asdf-install/tutorial/index.html,
ASDF-Install Tutorial} useful --- it contains notes on getting @acronym{ASDF} to
work on Windows.

@node Supported Platforms, Loading Sheeple, Installation Procedure, Installing Sheeple
@subsection Supported Platforms
@cindex platforms, supported
@cindex supported platforms
Confirmed to work (pass all tests):

@enumerate
@item
SBCL
@cindex SBCL

@item
Clozure CL
@cindex Clozure CL
@cindex OpenMCL

@item
GNU CLISP
@cindex CLISP
@cindex GNU CLISP

@item
Scieneer CL
@cindex Scieneer CL
@cindex SCL
@end enumerate

Sheeple doesn't use any OS-specific code (or threads), so it should be stable on
all operating systems. OSX and Linux x86 have both been actually tested on the
aforementioned platforms. In theory, it should work on any implementation that
supports weap pointers and weak hash tables with key weakness through
trivial-garbage. If you run the test suite on a platform not listed above, and
all tests pass, please e-mail me and I'll add it to the list of supported
platforms.

@node Loading Sheeple,  , Supported Platforms, Installing Sheeple
@subsection Loading Sheeple
@cindex loading
Once you have followed the installation instructions (@pxref{Installation
Procedure}), loading Sheeple into a Lisp image is as simple as:

@lisp
(asdf:oos 'asdf:load-op 'sheeple)
(in-package sheeple-user)
@end lisp

Sheeple should work on most Lisp implementations that support weak pointers and
hash tables with key weakness, although it's mainly written and tested in SBCL
and Clozure CL on Linux x86.

Sheeple also includes a suite of tests you can run on whatever platform you're
trying to get it to work on. The test suite depends on Fiveam. To run it:

@lisp
(asdf:oos 'asdf:test-op 'sheeple)
@end lisp

And watch the tests scroll by. All tests should pass as long as you're using a
tagged release.

@node Concept Index, Copying, General Information, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index
@printindex cp

@node Copying,  , Concept Index, Top
@appendix Copying
@insertcopying

@bye
